**Short:** Palestine is among the earliest sites of human habitation in the world and Palestinian people descended directly from the ancestral inhabitants of the land. The Zionist claim over the land is rooted in the Hebrew bible, and is under questioning by scholars who suggest that myths like the Abraham story (which claims Abraham descended from Palestine) were written after the fact in an attempt to give Jews in captivity in Babylon land rights. The Moses Exodus story (where God promised the Israelites Palestine) is another myth used to justify the establishment of Israel. That, and for many other reasons, relying on ancient texts with questionable historical accuracy to justify the harm being done to Palestinians is dangerous. Until 1947, Jews and Palestinians coexisted in harmony, but the majority of today's global Jewish population, including those in Israel, have European roots. Zionism, as a European settler-colonial movement, denies Palestinian existence, and falsely emphasises Jewish ties to the land. At the end of the day, regardless of the evidence for or against the claims of Jewish presence 2000 years ago, it does not justify the current theft of land and harm inflicted on Palestinians.

**Long:** Palestine is among the earliest sites of human habitation in the world. Palestinian people descended directly from the ancestral inhabitants of the land. The reason Jewish Zionists feel they have a claim to the land is based on what is written in the Hebrew bible. However, scholars now suggest that the Abraham myth - which claims Abraham was born in Palestine - was composed centuries later in late 600 BCE by landowners while in captivity in Babylon, who were attempting to trace their rights to the land through their father Abraham. These captives upon their return from Babylon, then based their claim to what is now Palestine on another myth – the Moses Exodus story, which claims God gifted the Israelites the ‘promised land’ (Palestine). It is also worth questioning why a book written centuries ago and believed only by those who follow the religion, and is historically proven at the very least questionable in its factual accounts - is being used as a justification to exterminate Palestinians and occupy the land. 

In actuality, Jews and Palestians lived in harmony in Palestine until 1947. Jews are also largely a diaspora, with several Jews and Israeli Jews in particular, having no genetic or Middle Eastern heritage tying them to the region. In fact, European/Ashkenazi Jews make up 80% of the world's Jewish population. Meaning the majority of Jews globally - and in Israel - have European roots and are not Indigenous to Palestine. Genetic testing is also conveniently banned in Israel, likely in an attempt to cover up this fact.

To justify the appropriation of land, and the expulsion and elimination of its people, Zionism as a European settler-colonial movement has tried to deny the existence of the Palestinians altogether and falsely inflate Jews ancestral ties to the land. Before the British Mandate on Palestine and the Balfour declaration, Jews in Palestine made up only 4% of the population. Jewish claims that they inhabited Palestine 2000 years ago are irrelevant in the current context, and definitely do not justify the theft of land and the killing and expulsion of the Palestinians.

Sources:

[@key48return](https://www.instagram.com/key48return)

[@raadbarhoush](https://www.instagram.com/raadbarhoush/)

[welcometopalestine.com](https://www.welcometopalestine.com/history-of-palestine/ancient-history/)

This answer is taken from the document [Palestine: in Conversation Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OVKqgxQDOfFjy5h6KXgbKkHTFRPvRT79LFOcAao-imA/edit?pli=1&fbclid=IwAR31dX1VTjTiQRPBgdu-jeocUOhqXZcPCnsWFthV4VFLhjCya9_A22ZpQEs).
