[George Galloway](https://askpalestine.info/users/George%20Galloway) mentioned in [this](https://youtu.be/IIHtjH6UkBk?si=jiEHdpI5VJAo-0_f&t=1176) video:

The solution should be within one state it will have to be, because the two-state solution, which I supported as an Arafatist, I look foolish now, having supported the Oslo Agreement, I look like an idiot. Arafat looks like an idiot. Because we believed that there would be a two-state solution, and almost 40 years after the agreement, there's not one centimetre of Palestine free, and Gaza is in complete ruins. The West Bank is on fire. Settlers are running amok. The attempt to ethnically cleanse the West Bank and East Jerusalem is running concurrently with the slaughter in Gaza. So where are you going to put two-state solutions? There's 800,000 illegal settlers in the West Bank. They all settled there long before October the 7th.

In 1948 the Balfour Declaration was received and co-signed by the Zionist organizations. I was literally in the building. It's a big Manchester story. Balfour himself was an MP in Manchester. The document was signed in Manchester. The reality is, when we promised, on behalf of one people, to give to a second people the land that belonged to a third people, we set off, as Churchill put it, down a descending staircase, soaked in blood. That's why when some people say, why are you so exercised by this? Because my country caused it, and my country is still involved in it. That's why I'm so exercised by it.
