**Short:** Israel and the IDF's claims about the events on October 7th have now been widely debunked, some even confirmed by the IDF themselves. Allegations of rape and the claim of 40 beheaded babies were officially retracted and proven false, and the overall death toll has been revised from 1400 to 1200. Eyewitnesses, including IDF soldiers, have all stated that the IDF indiscriminately shot and bombed, killing its own civilians. We also have to question the IDF’s failure to pre-empt the attack despite being given multiple warnings, as well as its continued blocking of negotiations to free its own hostages. If we’re going to condemn child-killing and cry for the Israeli hostages, that should at the very least also include the 10,000 Palestinian hostages (including women and children) who are currently illegally imprisoned by Israel, and the 20,000 and counting innocent Palestinians who have been killed in the name of ‘defeating Hamas’. We have real war crimes being committed, real Palestinian children dying, and real hostages (on both sides) under attack due to the actions of the Israeli government and IDF. Ensuring a better future for the Palestinian people is where our focus should be.

**Long:** Israel and the IDF's claims about the events on October 7th have now been widely debunked, some even confirmed by the IDF themselves. The allegations of mass rape have also been dropped by the Israeli government. The 40 beheaded babies claim has been officially retracted and proven false by the US government and other independent organisations and downscaled to one dead baby, not beheaded, and killed by persons unknown. Two-thirds of Israelis killed on October 7 were military personnel. 

The killers of the remaining third are revealed to have been in part, the Israeli armed forces themselves. They have also recently revised the death toll from 1400 to 1200. Several eyewitnesses, including IDF soldiers and a recent investigation, have all attested to the fact the IDF was shooting/bombing indiscriminately and was targeting its own civilians/military. They also released helicopter footage of the attack, in which they admitted they had killed their own citizens/soldiers as it was ‘too difficult to tell who was who’. There have also been several questions surrounding the fact that the most sophisticated military on earth, with the world's best surveillance system was both unable to pre-empt the Hamas attack and also unable to respond accurately.

The state of Israel also has more to gain from retaliating to an attack than preventing one, and this needs to be taken into consideration especially when we are claiming that Hamas’ actions have been ‘unjustifiable’. We know Netanyahu specifically is not on the side of preventing further harm because he has continued to block negotiations by Hamas to release the Israeli hostages in exchange for fuel, aid and a ceasefire, and he continues to bomb Gaza indiscriminately, so far resulting in the death of 8 Israeli hostages. Yet, Hamas remains the enemy and the excuse to cause further destruction. Even when the Israeli hostages have publicly spoken out about their experiences in captivity, saying they were treated very well. If we want justice for the Israeli hostages, the most immediate risk to their safety and well-being is the carpet bombing and restrictions on Gaza where many of them are located. Due to the occupation, they are also being deprived of food and water and facing imminent death alongside the remaining Palestinians.

In the same vein, if we agree that taking hostages and killing children are horrible crimes, we need to acknowledge the 10,000 Palestinians, including women and children, who currently remain illegally imprisoned and tortured by the Israeli government. Hamas captured Israeli hostages on Oct 7 in order to facilitate a hostage swap, aiming to negotiate the release of all Palestinians being held in Israeli jails. These men, women, children and elders are arrested indiscriminately and held without trial, dehumanised, stripped, urinated on, beaten, and exposed to physical and psychological torture, and whose whereabouts are often kept from their families. We have real war crimes being committed, real children dying, and real hostages under ‘attack’ all due to the Israeli occupation. Restoring Palestinian's human rights and dignity is where the focus should be.

[Video](https://www.instagram.com/p/CzCvpQVvtOG/): The Israeli hostages were taken for a hostage swap

Sources:

[@georgegalloway](https://twitter.com/georgegalloway)

[@olblueyzz](http://www.instagram.com/olblueyzz)

This answer is taken from the document [Palestine: in Conversation Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OVKqgxQDOfFjy5h6KXgbKkHTFRPvRT79LFOcAao-imA/edit?pli=1&fbclid=IwAR31dX1VTjTiQRPBgdu-jeocUOhqXZcPCnsWFthV4VFLhjCya9_A22ZpQEs).
