**The war will pass, and things will go back to normal/Israel will eventually accept a peace deal.**

**Short:** The current "normal" for Palestinians is unsustainable, and inhumane and has resulted in their genocide. Also, assuming that there is even a normal for them to return to is meaningless when you understand the traumatic loss of life and infrastructure. Gaza will never be the same again. Israel, with the support of the U.S. and EU, refuses a ceasefire, driven by their political interests in overtaking Gaza and accessing power and resources. Also, the majority of Israelis, influenced by an alternate historical narrative and deep propaganda, lack empathy for Palestinians and view them through a dehumanised lens. On top of all of this, Israeli society is becoming more extreme and nationalistic and hell-bent on destroying Palestine to ensure Israeli ‘safety’, making Israeli-led change extremely unlikely. The path to Palestinian liberation, similar to South Africa's apartheid, lies in external pressure through things like consumer and corporate boycotts and sanctions from the political elite. Peace will not come from Israel.

**Long:** Firstly we need to ask, what ‘normal’ is that? The current normal for the Palestinians was already unsustainable, and inhumane and has resulted in their genocide. It is clear that whatever the outcome of the ‘conflict’, returning to normal is not an option for the Palestinians - nor at all possible due to the severe loss of life, trauma and decimation of homes, schools, hospitals and other essential resources. Gaza will never be the same again. Secondly, Israel will never willingly make a peace deal with Palestinians. Not only is Joe Biden actively and proudly standing alongside Netanhayu in his refusal to enact a ceasefire, but Israel and the West have a lot to gain from overtaking Gaza and eradicating Palestinians. Namely regional power, and access to abundant oil and gas reserves.

Another reason peace will not come from Israel is that the vast majority of Israelis, along with Zionists around the world, live in an alternate universe with alternate historical facts that feed more nationalism, militarism, and extremism. Also, the past 75 years of conflict have dehumanised Palestinians in the eyes of Israelis. Israelis as a collective are not able to empathise with Palestinians, they aren't able to comprehend Palestinian suffering - this phenomenon is widely documented. So when the IDF bombs Gaza and kills children, the average Israelis thinks that a) it is the Palestinian's fault for not agreeing to peace and for continuing to threaten and attack Israel, etc. and b) Israel is merely defending itself and there is simply no alternative.

Of course, there are some Israeli leftists and anti-Zionist Israelis who fight for Palestinian liberation. But it's a tiny minority. Most Israelis don't consider what it means for Palestinian freedom, dignity, and physical well-being to be systematically erased. Israel is, by every definition, an apartheid state. If a Jew and an Arab commit the exact same crime in the West Bank, they will face two different legal systems. The Jew will face a civil court, the Arab will face a military court. Two legal systems for two different groups. Things like these show us that it is near impossible for Israel to willingly end the occupation and agree to a just solution to the conflict because they are benefitting from the current state of affairs. Peace will not come from within Israel.

Israeli society is also getting more extreme, more nationalistic, more violent, and more entrenched in its
own historical narrative and its own self-victimisation. At this point, it is simply delusional to expect that change will come from Israel. The only thing that can bring Palestinian liberation is if the cost of the occupation outweighs its benefits. And that requires, just like for the apartheid in South Africa, massive external pressure. That means consumer boycott of Israeli goods, corporate boycott of Israeli technology, and sanctions by Israel's main trade partner and political supporters, the US and EU. Those are the only measures that can meaningfully push Israel toward ending the occupation and achieving true peace and thankfully are pretty easy for you to do.

[Video](https://www.instagram.com/p/Cy6GVHfuj_R/): What Israel really wants and why it won’t settle for ‘peace’

Sources:

[@raphmim](https://www.instagram.com/nouraerakat/): _we think it’s especially important to note that the majority of this answer was pulled directly from comments made by a former Zionist-Israeli_

This answer is taken from the document [Palestine: in Conversation Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OVKqgxQDOfFjy5h6KXgbKkHTFRPvRT79LFOcAao-imA/edit?pli=1&fbclid=IwAR31dX1VTjTiQRPBgdu-jeocUOhqXZcPCnsWFthV4VFLhjCya9_A22ZpQEs).
