[Dr. Mustafa Barghouti](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mustafa_Barghouti) said in [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3MERTh-mWxM) video when he was asked about Hamas targeting civilians:

It's not true. I think Hamas mainly attacked military establishments and installations and most of the people they they have arrested and taken as war prisoners are military people. I do not accept attacking any civilian. I do not accept that Israelis attack our civilians. Look at what Israeli planes are doing now in Gaza. They are bombarding houses. They're bringing down to earth whole apartments, whole buildings, high buildings are brought down to the ground. We already are reporting and receiving reports about families who are killed. Nine people in one family, 10 people in another family including children. I do not want any civilian to be hurt either by Palestinians or by Israelis but the question is how to end that? Will it end by attacking the Gaza Strip another time? Israel has already conducted five Wars on Gaza. One of them lasted 51 days. They destroyed everything. This did not stop Hamas, did not stop resistance. There is one way to stop any violence and that is to end the Israeli occupation and that the United States be fair. They cannot say that Israel has the right to defend itself but we the Palestinians don't have the right to defend ourselves. Let me remind you of the case of [Shireen Abu Akleh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shireen_Abu_Akleh), who was not only Palestinian but also American. A very peaceful journalist; she was shot to death by an Israeli sniper. Was anybody indicted? Was anybody taken to court? No! 52 other journalists were also killed. Our first aid providers are shot. Our doctors are shot.
