[Dr. Omar Suleiman](https://yaqeeninstitute.org/team/omar-suleiman) said in [this](https://youtu.be/DjhQwkq4m-c?si=DQI66R7nvWCE7n9p&t=826) video:

By insisting on facts. Jews have lived in the Muslim world for as long as Islam has existed in the Muslim world. Anti-Semitism is the crime of the West. You have historic Jewish communities in the Muslim world; show me that counterpart in the West; it doesn't exist. Zionism is an inherently racist project and in and of itself has a layer of anti-semitism to it because the idea was to dispose, in many ways, of the Jewish people from Europe and the West. Palestinians did not just wake up one day and start hating Jews. Islam was not the problem. Occupation is the problem. If Muslims came and kicked Palestinians out of their land established an illegal state on their territory and mistreated them the way that Israel is mistreating them then we we would resist that Muslim state. This has nothing to do with religion. This is based in, not just a lack of facts, but based entirely in fear. Religion cannot be scapegoated nor should religion be used to continue the war on the Palestinians.

Senator [Lindsey Graham](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lindsey_Graham) said that Israel is in a religious war and I stand with Israel unapologetically. It's clearly not us who have the problem of religious fanaticism. It is the speaker of the house. It is multiple members of Congress. It's the president of the United States who stands unapologetically as a Zionist and who speaks with such disregard for Palestinian Humanity and the children who are being slaughtered in his own country and abroad. We have a president whose Legacy will be genocide. We call him Genocide Joe for a reason. You can't fight that evil if you can't name it properly and it is important for us to no longer allow the Democratic party or a Democratic president to say well I am the lesser of the two evils. How much more evil can you get than an average of 10,000 civilians being killed a month you don't get much more evil than that so we're not going to fall for it anymore we will hold him accountable and we look forward to holding every single politician that has stood for this genocide accountable come November 24.
