[Dr. Abdel Wahab El-Messiri](https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%B9%D8%A8%D8%AF_%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%88%D9%87%D8%A7%D8%A8_%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%B1%D9%8A) said years ago when he was asked in [this](https://youtu.be/FIhfNZRD6lc?si=ks4Epr78AgqQRDtl&t=129) video who is right: Hamas or Fatah?

Hamas, of course. My convictions are known. The only solution is resistance and more resistance. As for imagining that what they call a culture of peace will lead to positive results, no. The West gives you according to your strength. If you give up the resistance, you will not get anything, as happened with President Sadat. President Sadat imagined that when he went to Jerusalem, the treasures would be opened for him, but in the end they left him until he was assassinated. The same applies to Fatah and the Palestinian Authority. They announce that they will drop weapons and that they will inspect some members of Fatah who insist on carrying weapons, meaning that it has turned into a tool of oppression, believing that by doing so the Israelis will give them some gains.

The main problem in the conflict is that the Zionist minimum does not agree with the Palestinian minimum. For example, on an issue such as Jerusalem, Israel cannot give up half of Jerusalem. Another example is the issue of the return of refugees cannot be given up because it threatens the fragile demographic structure. Another example is dismantling the settlements. If Israel dismantles the settlements, it will lose its legitimacy as a Zionist state.
