**Short:** The US supports Israel to safeguard its strategic interests in the Middle East, particularly those related to oil and gas resources. The timing of Israel's creation with the discovery of oil in the region also reinforced their partnership. Their relationship has now also extended to destabilising Middle Eastern nations like Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine, and Lebanon. Secondly, the political lobby group [AIPAC](https://www.aipac.org/), one of the US’ largest, contributes massive political funding to US politicians. Finally the extensive multi-billion dollar US/Israel weapons partnership, which includes military aid, arms sales, police training and technological collaboration is another key factor.

**Long:** Israel is helping to protect America's oil and gas interests in the Middle East. The US also aims to eventually mine Gaza’s oil and gas reserves, and as such, it needs Israel's help in eradicating the Palestinians in order to make this possible. The timing of Israel's creation was similar in timing to when the Middle East first found its oil. And so, it was in the interest of the UK and US to support the Zionist state of Israel from that point forward. These nations worked together, and have continued to work together, to destabilise the Middle East - particularly Iraq, Afghanistan and now Palestine and Lebanon. The creation of a solely Israeli state would also finally serve as the first ever stable foothold in the Middle East for the United States, something which it has been yet to achieve.

Similarly, one of the largest political lobby groups in the United States is the AIPAC (American Israel Public Affairs Committee) which provides billions of dollars in political funding to representatives in the US political system. This also ties into one of the most significant reasons the US backs Israel, and that is due to their longstanding and extensive weapons relationship, which is marked by military aid, arms sales, police training, and joint technological collaboration. The United States also provides Israel with substantial military and financial aid annually. The U.S. foreign assistance to Israel is one of the largest aid packages it offers, and in 2022, the U.S. [signed](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2016/9/15/us-and-israel-sign-record-38bn-military-aid-deal) an agreement to provide Israel with $3.8 billion in military aid. Doing this ensures they remain backed by and in Israel’s good books.

[Video: What AIPAC does and who it backs](https://www.instagram.com/reel/Cz46_nri_72/?igshid=MzRlODBiNWFlZA==)

This answer is taken from the document [Palestine: in Conversation Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OVKqgxQDOfFjy5h6KXgbKkHTFRPvRT79LFOcAao-imA/edit?pli=1&fbclid=IwAR31dX1VTjTiQRPBgdu-jeocUOhqXZcPCnsWFthV4VFLhjCya9_A22ZpQEs).
