Professor [Edward Said](https://www.askpalestine.info/users/Edward%20Said) mentioned in [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-MbXY3X-xGU) video when he was asked whether Zionists have any historical claim to the lands of Israel.:

Of course, but I would not say that the Jewish claim or the Zionist claim is the only claim or the main claim. I say that it is a claim among many others. Certainly, the Arabs have a much greater claim because they've had a longer history of inhabitants of actual residents in Palestine than the Jews did. There has been some quite interesting work done by biblical archaeologists in which you will see that the period of actual Israelites', as it was called in the Old Testament, dominance in Palestine amounts to about 200 to 250 years but there were Jebusites, there were Canaanites, there were Philistines, there were many other people in Palestine at the time and before and after. To isolate one of them and say that's the real owner of the land. that is fundamentalism because the only way you could back it up and say well God gave it to us yes but I mean Christians think that God gave it to them and Muslims think that God gave it to them I mean that's not a rational argument.

The very important point is that I don't think any claim, [whether they say by God] or by the emperor; nobody has a claim that overrides all the others and entitles that person with that so-called claim to drive people out. This is a very very important point, I mean Jews have a claimant I've never denied that of course, they do but is it a claim that can tell a Palestinian: Well you've got to leave this house because I got it 2000 years ago and it's true I come from Poland or from Brooklyn but I have a bigger right to this house than to you you, so get out. Sorry, I disagree with that without kind of logic.
