**Short:** The true fair solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is the decolonization of Palestine, which involves the dismantling of the Israeli state as we know it, an end to the military occupation and restrictions, the right of return for Palestinian refugees, and the re-establishment of pre-1948 borders for an equal Palestine. It’s somewhat true however to say there isn’t a solution that suits both sides because the Zionist-Israeli goal is not peaceful coexistence but the permanent expulsion of Palestinians, something those in power stand by proudly. It’s also important to emphasise that this solution doesn’t in any way call for the eradication of Israelis, and in reality, it allows for the continued existence of Israelis in Palestine, given they are willing to accept its liberation. If not, Israelis have always possessed the ability to relocate and travel freely, something which Palestinians haven’t. Also, the duty for answering the question of ‘what else are we supposed to do’ should be on the people perpetrating war crimes to justify why they need to keep committing war crimes, and how the current state of affairs is absolutely necessary to ensure everyone's safety. Like many situations, we don’t even have to know the alternative to know that something is bad.

**Long:** This is somewhat correct. While Hamas has previously been open to a two-state solution, ultimately peaceful co-existence is not possible as long as Palestine is under occupation by Israel. The only solution is the decolonisation of Palestine. Israel as it currently stands should be dismantled, their illegal military occupation and restrictions on Palestinians should come to an end, the legal right to return be granted to all Palestinian refugees, and the re-creation of Palestinian borders pre-1948 established. One state, Palestine, Indigenous Palestine - where every citizen will be treated equally regardless of religion or race, as it was before the creation of 'Israel' and not victim to the Israeli government's current eradication plan. The reason that it is somewhat correct to say there is no solution that appeals to both sides, is because Israel's goal is not to exist peacefully alongside the Palestinians, it is to claim the entirety of Palestine and expel the people permanently. Zionism requires the state of Israel to thrive. This is something that they actively admit, have government documents stating, and are ultimately proud of. This isn’t a conspiracy.

In essence, it is also entirely plausible to fight for this solution, whilst respecting the rights of the Israelis who, whether they are against the occupation or not, have established homes, lives and communities in Palestine. And, emphasise the fact this solution does not call for the eradication of Israelis. If this solution is ever achieved, Israelis have the option to remain and accept a liberated Palestine and continue life in a land that is governed equally and humanitarian for all. Or they can leave, as they are telling and forcing the Palestinians to do. The difference in telling a Palestinian to leave to escape their circumstances, as opposed to an Israeli (apart from the fact that Palestinians are indigenous to Palestine), is that 10% of the Israeli population has dual citizenship and is also freely able to travel due to having one of the highest ranking passports in the world. Palestinians however, even when trying to flee bombing, are unable to easily acquire passports or enter another country. Even under the best circumstances, Palestinian passports are amongst the lowest-ranking passports in the world which further restricts their movement globally.

We also have to understand that asking ‘Well what else are they supposed to do?’ is misguided. Regardless of the presence of a solution, the duty should be on the people perpetrating war crimes to justify why they need to keep committing war crimes, and how the current state of affairs is absolutely necessary to ensure everyone's safety. Like many situations, we don’t even have to know the alternative to know that something is bad.

Sources:

[@key48return](https://www.instagram.com/key48return/)

[@timhutton](https://twitter.com/TimHuttonAu/status/1718175316588585448)

This answer is taken from the document [Palestine: in Conversation Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OVKqgxQDOfFjy5h6KXgbKkHTFRPvRT79LFOcAao-imA/edit?pli=1&fbclid=IwAR31dX1VTjTiQRPBgdu-jeocUOhqXZcPCnsWFthV4VFLhjCya9_A22ZpQEs).
