[Dr. Abdel Wahab El-Messiri](https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%B9%D8%A8%D8%AF_%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%88%D9%87%D8%A7%D8%A8_%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%B1%D9%8A) said years ago in [this](https://youtu.be/F-j8QHxqZFY?si=vOJZ45vwQSJY2G-C&t=395) video:

The Zionist state is a state committed to the settler ideology. The settler ideology is an ideology that establishes the right for a group in the West to move to Palestine and seize it. In this, it is not at all different from the settlement of whites in South Africa and the settlement of whites in North America and Australia. By the way, they have also used biblical apologies and preambles. They all said about themselves that they were Hebrews, that they were Israelis ascending to Zion, and that the original inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, must be exterminated. This applies to the Native Americans, it applies to the blacks in South Africa, and it applies to the Palestinians, even to others. They all spoke of themselves as a chosen people, and they all spoke of themselves as having absolute rights. As I mentioned this funny incident, which is an extreme one, but it is indicative: when they were discussing the language that would be used in the United States when declaring independence, Hebrew was presented as one of the possible scenarios. It was rejected, of course, and German and English were horrified, but it is a significant issue. In the end, the emergence of Christian Zionism is a resurrection for these settlement biblical myths.

The statements and apologies differ because some Zionists said that they had no connection to religion, but rather came to establish a secular, democratic state. Some of them said that we came to establish a government of workers. Still, the common element between all these experiences is the transfer of a human mass from the West to the East, because in the late 19th century Europe had many social problems. Crime increased, social frustration increased, and the Jewish question and unemployment worsened until they called the unemployed human surplus. Because the colonial solution is a solution to all problems and the solution is to export them, what was done was to export a group of Jews who were not absorbed by the new western economy, the new capitalist economy.
