**Short:** Hamas is actually only in Gaza. Even still, Israel continues to occupy, kill and imprison Palestinians in the West Bank where there is no Hamas - with the same ‘wiping out Hamas’ justifications. Israel blaming Palestinians for their own deaths is misleading and a common tactic of the IDF designed to paint Palestinians and Arabs as terrorists, and therefore justify their killing. In fact, investigations by international human rights organisations have proven the claims that Hamas is storing weapons in UNRWA schools are false. And while Israel accuses Hamas of using civilians as shields, evidence actually shows Israeli soldiers have regularly used Palestinians as human shields throughout history. Also, unlike Israel’s ‘Hamas’ claims - which it cannot verify, we can explicitly see the documented and current actions of Israel's military operation, including the demolishing of Palestinian homes, decimation of hospitals and refugee camps, and the indiscriminate killing of women and children. At least at this present moment, these actions show that Netanyahu and the IDF are the ones with no regard for civilians and civilian infrastructure, NOT Hamas.

**Long:** Hamas are actually only in Gaza. Even still, Israel continues to occupy, kill and imprison Palestinians in the West Bank where there is no Hamas - with the same ‘wiping out Hamas’ justifications. This is arguably one of Israel's most misleading claims because it blames Palestinians for their own death and deprives them of their victimhood. The Israeli government will say that a resistance group's existence is terrorism, therefore everyone associated with them (aka every citizen in every location in the area) is complicit, and dangerous and should be eradicated. They have used these arguments for decades, like in its attacks on Lebanon in 2006 and in Palestine in 2008. The Israeli government has yet to even prove that Hamas has used civilian infrastructure to store military weapons. In the two cases where Hamas stored weapons in UNRWA schools, the schools were empty.

In fact, only Israeli soldiers have consistently used Palestinians as human shields. Sometimes, by tying young Palestinians onto the hoods of their cars or forcing them to go into a home where a potential militant may be hiding. Israel’s definition of ‘human shields’' is also simply a combatant who may or may not be in the same general area as hundreds of civilians.’ Israel also rarely names these ‘combatants’ or provides evidence they were ever even in the area that was bombed. Even if we say that Israel's claims could be true, humanitarian law means Israel is supposed to avoid civilian casualties that would be ‘excessive’ in relation to whatever advantage could be gained. Despite what you may be led to believe are equal violations to human life, the sheer number of Palestinian civilian deaths, 10,000 children (and counting), along with the blockading of aid, indiscriminate carpet bombing, use of white phosphorus, bombing of schools, mosques, hospitals, churches, civilian homes and more horrendous violations of human rights - at least at this present moment - show Netanyahu and the IDF are the ones with no regard for civilians and civilian infrastructure, NOT Hamas.

Sources:

[@nouraerakat](https://www.instagram.com/nouraerakat/)

[@inthesetimesmag](https://www.instagram.com/inthesetimesmag/)

This answer is taken from the document [Palestine: in Conversation Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OVKqgxQDOfFjy5h6KXgbKkHTFRPvRT79LFOcAao-imA/edit?pli=1&fbclid=IwAR31dX1VTjTiQRPBgdu-jeocUOhqXZcPCnsWFthV4VFLhjCya9_A22ZpQEs).
