[Norman Finkelstein](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norman_Finkelstein) said in [this](https://youtu.be/NeO9jGxnbbs?si=WAX9oV3Eyllt4rRw&t=1994) video:

There's a common expression: wherever there is oppression, there's resistance. Not a particularly original idea. So when [Marzook](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mousa_Abu_Marzook) says there's going to be another and another and another action like this, well there was another and another and another slave revolt. Not altogether shall be a shocking revelation that people who are oppressed will continue to resist. So allow me just to read the passage.

The British Empire and the french republic linked together in their cause and their need will defend themselves to the death on their native soil, aiding each other like good comrades to the utmost of their strength even though large tracks of Europe and many old and famous states have fallen or may fall into the grip of the Gestapo and all the odious apparatus of Nazi rule we shall not flag or fail, we shall go on until the end. This island or large part of it, even if it were, subjugated and starving, even then we would continue. When Winsoton Churcill says that that's heroic. It's in all the history books. We shall go on till the end even if we're subjugated or starving but when Marzook says we are willing to sacrifice. We are a nation of Martyrs, we will do what it takes to free ourselves, to emancipate ourselves, to break out of this concentration camp. It suddenly becomes fanatical Jihadi talk. One of the most famous lines from the American Revolution: Give me liberty or give me death. Isn't that a martyr? And that's supposed to be exemplary of the standard to which we should all rise?
