[Dr. Mustafa Barghouti](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mustafa_Barghouti) said in [this](https://youtu.be/F6_cheSL29I?si=wwyfNeeCDQgyM4dJ&t=4198) video:

The Oslo Agreement was the greatest genius idea in the history of Israel because it guaranteed the continuation of the occupation without having Israel pay for the costs of the occupation. I mean that the [First Intifada](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Intifada) was costing Israel huge costs. They got rid of the Intifada because the stoppage of the uprising
was part of the agreement. They got rid of that ongoing blood which they could not afford. They gave the Palestinians an illusion.

There were many mistakes in the Oslo Accord:
*  The first one was what [Dr. Haider Abdel Shafi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haidar_Abdel-Shafi) warned it is not permitted to sign any agreement with Israel without stopping the occupation. The Palestine Liberation Organization agreed to sign the agreement without stopping the settlement. As a result, we had 121,000 settlers in 1993. Today, we have 750,000 settlers. In other words, the occupation and Judaization process did not stop. How can you sign an agreement without stopping the settlement?
* The second point is that there was a non-contradictory recognition. The Palestinians recognized Israel and Israel only recognized the organization and not the Palestinian state. It recognized the organization as a representative of the Palestinians and did not recognize the Palestinian state.
*  The third mistake was that the organization agreed to sign a transitional agreement without determining the ultimate goal, as was required by the official agreement in Madrid and Washington. We used to say that before we talk about the details and the stages, we should first determine the ultimate goal and stop the occupation of all the occupied territories. After that, we will study how to reach that goal. However, without determining the ultimate goal, the organization lost the initiative. There was a transitional period of six years after which the research for the ultimate solution should begin, which included Jerusalem, the settlers, the refugees, the borders, security, and water.  What happened was that Israel took the agreement and stopped the negotiations.
* The other major mistake was that in the second stage of the agreement, they agreed to divide the West Bank into three parts, A, B, and C. A was an area under the control of the Palestinian Authority, while B was under civilian control. However, the majority of the land, 60%, remained under the control of C, which means it is under the control of Israel. As for now, Israel took control even over A. This was after the last war.

As a result, the Oslo agreement was one of the biggest historical mistakes made by the Palestinian Authority. Because it was based on two delusions. The first delusion was that the Zionist movement was ready to find a solution with the Palestinians, while in reality, it was not. The second delusion was that the United States could be an honest mediator. It's not honest and it's not a moderator. On the contrary, Netanyahu came to power to destroy the Oslo agreement. They got rid of the intifada, and then they wanted to destroy the Oslo agreement. He made every effort to postpone the negotiations. Since 2014, there has been no meeting between the Palestinian-Israeli negotiations. All of this is over.

The liberation movement got tricked into wanting recognition at any cost. The contradiction began then between the liberation organization, the bureaucratic system and the liberation organization: the liberation movement. The interests of the bureaucratic system that manages the organization conflict with the interests of the liberation movement. This became worse when the Palestinian Authority was established. Because the bureaucratic system that was established with the Palestinian Authority took over the organization. Instead of the authority being a member of the organization and a reference point to the organization, the organization became a small expense item in the Palestinian Authority's budget.

This is the reason for the internal Palestinian crisis and the reason for the division. What led to the division was the Oslo Accord. The Oslo Accord created the original division in the Palestinian sphere. People became with Oslo or against Oslo. We were very careful about this. Dr. Haidar Abdel Shafi, Dr. Edward Said, Mr. Ibrahim Al-Dakkaq, and I were against Oslo and we were aware of its dangers. This is the reason for the establishment of the [Palestinian National Initiative](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palestinian_National_Initiative). These four people, along with 500 other people, established the Initiative to reject the Oslo Accord.
