In [this](https://twitter.com/_ZachFoster/status/1716497689787949232) tweet, Zachary said:

* From late 1987-1988, Palestinians in Gaza rose up in a series of non-violent demonstrations, strikes, boycotts & protests. They killed 0 Israelis. They were unarmed. In response, Israel killed 142 Palestinians in Gaza. Source: Jean-Pierre Filiu, Gaza: A History (2014), 206.
* In 2005, Palestinians organized a non-violent movement, Boycott, Divestment & Sanctions (BDS). In response, Israel: 1) said the movement's true goal is to destroy Israel. 2) called BDS supporters antisemitic. 3) [Punished](https://t.co/dTAizzuUE1) its founder w/threat of displacement.
* In 2003, unarmed Palestinians in Bil'in organized weekly protests against the separation barrier that was confiscating their land. In 2009, Israel [killed](https://www.972mag.com/escaping-justice-who-killed-bassem-abu-rahme/#:~:text=In%20April%202009%2C%20during%20the,the%20presence%20of%20senior%20officers.) Bassem Abu Rahmah w/a shot in the chest; in 2010, it killed Jawaher Abu Rahmah, who died from tear gas inhalation.
* In 2008 & 2009, the residents of Ni'lin, in the West Bank, protested non-violently every week against the expansion of the separation barrier that was confiscating their land. In response, Israel killed Ahmed Moussa on 29 July 2008; Israel [killed](https://electronicintifada.net/content/transcript-israeli-military-kills-10-year-old-nilin/7643) Yousef Aqel Srour on 5 June 2009.
* Beginning in March 2018, tens of thousands of Gazans marched to the fence, unarmed, demanding the right of return. Israel killed 223 Palestinians & Israeli snipers left 6,106 Palestinians with life-changing wounds.  Not a single Israeli experienced any major physical harm.

These incidents represent a tiny fraction of Palestinian non-violent resistance. In the vast majority of cases of Palestinian non-violent resistance, Israel responds w/ lethal & disproportionate violence. And you wonder why a tiny number of Palestinians have turned to violence?
